---
layout: post
title: homegit
categories: sysadmin utilities git
---

I use a system I call **homegit** to manage config files and scripts in my home directory on all my machines. The idea is simple: a Git repository rooted at `~` that [I push to GitHub](https://github.com/kerrickstaley/homedir). I’ve used this system for 6 years and like it a lot. See below to set it up for yourself!

The core functionality comes from 3 lines in my `~/.bashrc`:

```
homegit() {
    git --git-dir=$HOME/.homegit --work-tree=$HOME "$@"
}
```

This defines a command `homegit` that works like regular `git` except that it saves its state in `~/.homegit` (as opposed to `~/.git`). Having a special command helps avoid accidents, like thinking I'm in a project repo, running `git clean -dfx`, and deleting everything in my home. I also use `git_prompt_info` in my Zsh `PS1` to show my current Git branch, and by using `--git-dir=$HOME/.homegit` I avoid seeing branch information all the time.

I also define this command:

```
homegit-private() {
    git --git-dir=$HOME/.homegit-private --work-tree=$HOME "$@"
}
```

`homegit-private` works just like `homegit`, with the same Git toplevel dir (!) The difference is that I push the contents to a private repo. This allows me to version things like my SSH config and easily keep it in sync across devices. It's also where I put anything that isn't the same between my home and work setups.

When I want to pull my dotfiles onto a new device, I run these commands:

```
git clone git@github.com:kerrickstaley/homedir
mv homedir/.git ~/.homegit
git --git-dir=$HOME/.homegit diff  # check that the next command won't overwrite anything
git --git-dir=$HOME/.homegit reset --hard HEAD
```

The last piece that helps with all this is the [`runningon` command](https://github.com/kerrickstaley/homedir/blob/main/bin/runningon). This allows me to put conditional blocks in my rc files like this:
```
# Default to Gnu binaries on macOS.
if runningon macos; then
    export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/coreutils/libexec/gnubin:$PATH"  # coreutils
    export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/grep/libexec/gnubin:$PATH"       # grep
    export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/gnu-sed/libexec/gnubin:$PATH"    # sed
    export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/gnu-tar/libexec/gnubin:$PATH"    # tar
fi
```
That way, I can use the same rc files on both macOS and Linux, at both home and work.

If you want to use this system yourself, you just need to copy [these 7 lines](https://github.com/kerrickstaley/homedir/blob/5638b40e250645af0d449dd025c2c175f2a4ba35/.bashrc#L7-L13) into your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`, and copy the `runningon` script into your `~/bin` and modify the list of hostnames.
